Istio 1.23 release notes (#15538)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.23.x/announcing-1.23/change-notes/index.md

- **Fixed** Incorrect iptables rules for ambient in IPv6 mode

- **Fixed** persistent IP autoallocation for service entry to allocate per-host rather than per-servicenEntry
  ([Issue #52319](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52319))

- **Fixed** ServiceEntry validation to suppress the address warning required if using auto IP allocation controller
  ([Issue #52422](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52422))

- **Fixed** an issue where TLS settings in DestinationRule are not respected when connecting from a gateway or sidecar to a backend enrolled using ambient mode.

- **Fixed** an issue preventing DestinationRule `proxyProtocol` from working when TLS is disabled.

- **Removed** the `ISTIO_ENABLE_OPTIMIZED_SERVICE_PUSH` feature flag.

- **Removed** the `ENABLE_OPTIMIZED_CONFIG_REBUILD` feature flag.

- **Removed** the experimental `PILOT_ENABLE_CONFIG_DISTRIBUTION_TRACKING` feature flag and corresponding `istioctl experimental wait` command.

## Security

- **Added** stricter validation of CSRs when Istio is functioning as the RA and is configured with an external CA for workload certificate signing.  ([Issue #51966](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51966))

> - **Fixed** Removes the currently-document requirement currently in our SPIRE docs to force the SPIRE SDS server to use Istio-default SDS socket name, versus whatever the (user-configurable) SPIRE SDS server socket filename happens to be. This introduces WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_SOCKET_FILE as an agent env var. If set to a non-default value, the agent will expect to find a non-Istio SDS server socket at the hardcoded path: `WorkloadIdentityPath/WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_SOCKET_FILE` and will throw an error if no healthy socket was found. Otherwise, it will listen to it. If this is unset, the agent will start and Istio default SDS server instance with a hardcoded path and hardcoded socket file of: `WorkloadIdentityPath/DefaultWorkloadIdentitySocketFile` and listen to it. This removes/replaces the agent env var USE_EXTERNAL_WORKLOAD_SDS (added in #45941)([Issue #48845](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48845))

Author: needs more proof reading

- **Improved** the Helm installation for Istiod multi-cluster for primary-remote. Now, Helm installation only requires setting global.externalIstiod, instead of also requiring pilot.env.EXTERNAL_ISTIOD to be set.
  ([Issue #51595](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51595))

- **Updated** the [`distroless`](/docs/ops/configuration/security/harden-docker-images/) images to be based on [Wolfi](https://wolfi.dev).
This should have no user-facing impact.

- **Updated** Kiali addon to version v1.87.0.

- **Added** the `releaseChannel:extended` flag to non-GA features and APIs. ([Issue #173](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/173))

- **Added** outlier log path configuration in mesh proxy config which allows users to configure the path to the outlier detection log file. ([Issue #50781](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50781))

- **Added** Add an `ambient` umbrella chart that does nothing but wrap the baseline Istio components required for installing Istio with ambient support

> - **Added** Istiod's readiness check is now also available over https for use in clusters utilizing a remote control plane for sidecar injection. ([Issue #51506](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51506))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for readiness checks over https to istiod for use in clusters utilizing a remote control plane for sidecar injection.
  ([Issue #51506](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51506))
```

> - **Fixed** Ensure CNI plugin inherits CNI agent log level, simplify CNI logging config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the CNI plugin inherits CNI agent log level.

- **Improved** CNI logging config.
```
Move the improved item up to the Improved section.

  ([Issue #50958](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50958))

> - **Fixed** service account annotation formatting error fixed by removing dashes ([Issue #51289](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51289))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue with service account annotation formatting by removing dashes.
  ([Issue #51289](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51289))
```

> - **Fixed** `istio.io/rev` is not user intent for ztunnel, should be an annotation. Also, consistently propagate custom annotations in the ztunnel chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where custom annotations were not propagated to the ztunnel chart.
```

I don't understand the first part... This might need to be checked by finding the Issue and seeing what was meant there.

> - **Fixed** an issue where `sidecar.istio.io/proxyImage` annotation was ignored during the gateway injection ([Issue #51888](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51888))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `sidecar.istio.io/proxyImage` annotation was ignored during the gateway injection.
  ([Issue #51888](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51888))
```

> - **Fixed** `values.cni.logLevel` is a no-op, and is now deprecated. Use `values.{cni|global}.logging.level` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** `values.cni.logLevel` is now deprecated. Use `values.{cni|global}.logging.level` instead.
```

Move to the removed section

> - **Fixed** netlink error may not be correctly parsed, leading to `istio-cni` not properly ignoring leftover ipset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where netlink errors were not be correctly parsed, leading to `istio-cni` not properly ignoring leftover ipsets.
```

> - **Upgraded** base images to use the latest Ubuntu LTS, `ubuntu:noble`. Previously, `ubuntu:focal` was used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Upgraded** base debug images to use the latest Ubuntu LTS, `ubuntu:noble`. Previously, `ubuntu:focal` was used.
```

## istioctl

- **Improved** the output for `istioctl version` to be more user-friendly.  ([Issue #51296](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51296))

- **Improved** the `istioctl proxy-status` command.
  * Each status now includes the time since the last change.
  * If a proxy is not subscribed to a resource, it will now be shown as `IGNORED` instead of `NOT SENT`.
    `NOT SENT` continues to be used for resources that are requested, but never sent.
  * Include a new `ERROR` status when configuration is rejected.

- **Added** a status subcommand that prints out the status of gateway(s) for a given namespace.  ([Issue #51294](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51294))

> - **Added** Allow users to set the seccompProfile.type (e.g. to RuntimeDefault) for auto deployed waypoints by setting `values.gateways.seccompProfile.type` in the istiod injection config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability for users to set the `seccompProfile.type` (e.g. to `RuntimeDefault`) for auto deployed waypoints by setting `values.gateways.seccompProfile.type` in the istiod injection config.
```

> - **Added** overwrite flag to istioctl apply command to allow overwriting existing resources in the cluster (initially, just namespace waypoint enrollment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `overwrite` flag to `istioctl apply` command to allow overwriting existing resources in the cluster (initially, just namespace waypoint enrollments).
```

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: x.y.z
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio x.y.z release notes.

> publishdate: 2020-07-29

Author: fix this

release: x.y.z
weight: 10
aliases:

>     - /news/announcing-x.y.z

Author: header needs fixing

---
title: Istio 1.23.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.23.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.23.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2024-08-13
release: 1.23.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.23.0
---

> ## Traffic Management

Reviewer 2: link new post

---
title: Istio 1.23.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.23.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.23.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2024-08-13
release: 1.23.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.23.0

> ---

Author: No deprecations in this release

---
title: Istio 1.23.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.23.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.23.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2024-08-13
release: 1.23.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.23.0
---

## Deprecations

>  - **Deprecated** the in-cluster Operator.  Please check out our dedicated blog post for more details on the change.

Reviewer 2: and this

- **Fixed** an issue where the status code was unset when using OpenTelemetry tracing.
  ([Issue #50195](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50195))

- **Fixed** an issue where the span name was not set when using the OpenTelemetry tracing provider.

- **Fixed** `statsMatcher`'s regular expression not matching a route's `stat_prefix`.

- **Fixed** an issue where the `cluster_name` and `http_conn_manager_prefix` labels were incorrectly truncated for services without a `.svc.cluster.local` suffix.

- **Removed** Istio Stackdriver metrics from XDS.
  ([Issue #50808](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50808))

- **Removed** the OpenCensus tracer from Istio XDS.
  ([Issue #50808](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50808))

- **Removed** the feature flag `ENABLE_OTEL_BUILTIN_RESOURCE_LABELS`.

## Extensibility

- **Removed** internal multi-version protobuf files from the API. This is an internal change for most users. If you directly consume Istio APIs as protobufs, read the upgrade notes.
  ([Issue #3127](https://github.com/istio/api/issues/3127))

## Installation

> - **Added** `.Values.pilot.trustedZtunnelNamespace` to the `istiod` Helm chart. Set this if installing ztunnel to a different namespace from `istiod`. This value supersedes `.Values.pilot.env.CA_TRUSTED_NODE_ACCOUNTS` (which is still respected if set).

Reviewer: Move this down to the other added items

  ([Issue #51595](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51595))

- **Updated** the [`distroless`](/docs/ops/configuration/security/harden-docker-images/) images to be based on [Wolfi](https://wolfi.dev).
  This should have no user-facing impact.

- **Updated** Kiali addon to version 1.87.0.

- **Added** the `releaseChannel:extended` flag to non-GA features and APIs. ([Issue #173](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/173))

- **Added** outlier log path configuration to the mesh proxy config which allows users to configure the path to the outlier detection log file.
  ([Issue #50781](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50781))

- **Added** an `ambient` umbrella Helm chart that wraps the baseline Istio components required for installing Istio with ambient support.

- **Added** support for readiness checks over https to istiod for use in clusters utilizing a remote control plane for sidecar injection.
  ([Issue #51506](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51506))

- **Fixed** an issue where the CNI plugin inherited the CNI agent log level.

- **Improved** CNI logging config.

>   ([Issue #50958](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50958))

Reviewer: Move this up above to join the other improved item
